I don't believe that theory is dead.  I believe we have shifted into a new age of understanding.  Like Anderson said we have gone through the different ages from the age of data. He put a good analogy of the ages we have gone through the file cabinet analogy to the library analogy, to now not being sure how to describe the cloud of data that exists.  With all the data that we do have through datasets like that of social media and other datasets that could be derived from everyday phone use, it shows that we are in shift.  Big data offers in many dimensions  that are not just in volume.  It allows for higher velocity  in such that it allows for faster speed and ability to have data in real-time, compared to other ways of going and collecting data.  It allows for a massive scope, which allows to look at huge population, such as through the huge use of Facebook or twitter, likewise to having to go collect census data that is slow and long process.  Big Data is able to be create with just the nature flow of human life which allows for genuine data right to ones fingertips.   As mention in Anderson's article with that of Biologist J. Venter, has been able to sequence entire ecosystems and which can show a specific sequence that shows different species.  Though this doesn't actually show what species are. 

 I believe we have started to a paradigm shift but not one that throws everything out the window.  I believe that big data does not throw theory out the window, data doesn't need to test theory, but it could be used to form theory.  Big data can never take human intervention out of the equation.  Big data is very promising but it doesn't take out the scientific method out of science. You need experiments to find causation.  Big data needs to be wisely used in what type of field that it is being applied to. 